style sheet - a list of CSS rules or rule sets

the following are rule sets:
div {
    color: red;
    margin: 20px;
}

p {
    font-weight: bold;
}

The div tag is a selector in CSS.
There are multiple types of selectors.
Selectors are used to target the elements needed to be stylized.

The color, margin, font-weight etc. attributes are called declarations.
The declaration is a list of key-value pairs.

CSS can be used directly inside the HTML file or by using external CSS files.
To use external CSS files inside an HTML file it needs to be linked inside the head of the HTML file
using the link tag.

HEX CODES:
Example: #42f4f1

Hex codes start with a # and is followed by 6 digits that can be numbers from 0 to 9 or letters from A to F, and together
they result a color.

The hex code is made up of 3 different channels:
R (Red) - the first two numbers
G (Green) - the middle two numbers
B (Blue) - the last two numbers

For each channel 0 represents the darkest shade and F represents the brightest shade.

INLINE ELEMENTS AND BLOCK ELEMENTS:
The difference between inline and block elements is how they are displayed in a browser and how much room they
upon the page.

Inline elements line up next to each other in the browser, and they don't take up any more room than their content needs.
ex: span, img, strong, em, a, etc.

Block elements take the whole width of a page regardless of content and do not sit side-by-side. They always start on
a new line.
ex: p, div, h2, h2, h3, ul, li etc.

The user agent stylesheet refers to styles applied automatically by the browser
i.e. default browser styles and can be overridden.

MARGIN & PADDING:
The margin property represents the space around the outside of the element border.
The padding property represents the internal space within an element.

!!! For inline elements, margins are added only to the left and right. The padding works the same. !!!
!!! With inline elements, the padding can go on top of another element padding !!!
!!! For block elements, the margins of for example two elements, the bottom margin of the first and the top margin of
    the second gets squashed together. Example: 20px margin-bottom (first) 20px margin-top (second) does not result in
    40px, it will be 20 px between the elements.
    If one of the elements had 60px and one 20px, the largest will apply i.e. 60px. !!!

!!!!!!! IMPORTANT !!!!!!!
The inline-block can be used to get the best of both worlds, resulting in the above rules not applying anymore.
I.e. for an inline-block element that is by default inline, will have margins all around and the padding won't overlap,
and for an inline-block element that is by default block, the margins won't overlap.

CLASSES & SELECTORS:
We use the class attribute, as a hook to style individual HTML elements.
In CSS a class is accessed via a dot symbol '.' followed by the name of the class (example: .error {...}).
If multiple HTML elements have the same class for example a div and a paragraph you can target style the 'p' tags
using the followin syntax: <name of the tag>.<name of the class> i.e p.error.
Multiple classes can be added to an element by separating the name of the classes with a space, but the classes must
be inside the double quotes. Example: class="classname anotherclassname". In the case of multiple classes, if one or more
class names already had styles applied to it, it will be inherited unless it is overriden.

Ids can also be used in a similar way as classes, but they are more useful when combined with JavaScript. To access an
id in CSS the pound/hash symbols is used '#'. The inheritence works the same HOWEVER using ids have the constrait that
it must be unique, i.e. the element with the id of for example 'content' cannot be used again on the same page.

Descendant selectors can also be used to target only specific elements nested inside other elements. For example:
A <p> nested inside a <div>. In that case another syntax it is used: <name of the parent><empty space><name of the child>
I.e. div p {...}.
Descendant selectors works with classes and ids as well.

Attribute selectors can also be used to target specific elements but only the ones that have specific attributes.
The syntax: <element tag>[attributes go inside the square brackets].
I.e. a[href]{...}
Attribute selectors can check for a specific value. For example, it can check that a href anchor attribute has a
specific website value, and only apply stiles to that one specific anchor tag.
Example: a[href="google.com"]{...}
To apply a style for an attribute that has an unknown value, and we only know a part of the value, we can use an asterisk.
Example: a[href*="goog"]{...}
To apply a style for an attribute that has an unknown value, and we only know the end value, we can use a dollar sign.
Example: a[href$="goog"]{...}

!!! THE CASCADE !!!
The cascade refers to rules cascading from top to bottom. From parents to children.
Inheritance - HTML elements can inherit CSS properties that are applied to their parents, but not all properties can
              be inherited, it is mainly fonts and text styles or colors.
            - for the children to inherit the properties that are not automatically inherited from the parents, we use
              the inherit property.
            - properties of the parents can be overridden by the children
Specificity - the inheritance works from top to bottom, so whatever is declared last inside CSS takes precedence however,
              in case of specificity that is not the case.
              For example a div that has paragraph children, in the CSS file the last rule is for paragraph tags.
              If there is a rule targeting specific children like 'div p' and has the same declarations as the last rule,
              that style will be applied ot the paragraph tags inside the div beause it is more SPECIFIC it carries more WEIGHT.
